# Overview
Machine learning is a field of study that gives computers the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed.

## Definition
A computer is said to learn from experience `E` with respect to some tasks `T` and some performance measure `P`, if its performance on `T`, as measured by `P`, improves with experience `E`.

**Example 1**

> Suppose your email program watches which emails you do or do not mark as spam, and based on that learns how to better filter spam.

In this example, the program learns from experience `E` (email program watching me label emails as spam or not spam), the task `T` is to let program better filter spams, and the performance `p` is measured by the number of emails it correctly classified as spam/not spam.

**Example 2**
> Playing checkers

`E` = The experience of playing many games of checkers

`T` = The task of playing checkers

`P` = The probability that the program will win the next game

## Supervised Learning
In supervised learning, we are given a data set and already know what our correct output should look like, having the idea that there is a relationship between the input and the output.

Supervised learning problems are categorized into `regression` and `classification` problems.

**Regression Problem**

In a regression problem, we are trying to predict results within a continuous output, meaning that we are trying to map input variables to some continous function.

**Example 1**
> Given data about the size of houses on the real estate market, try to predict their price. Price as a function of size is a continuous output, so this is a regression problem.

**Example 2**
> Given a picture of a person, to predict their age on the basis of the given picture.

**Classification Problem**

In a classification problem, we are tying to predict results in a discrete output. In other words, we are trying to map input variables into discrete categories.

**Example 1**
> Given data about the size of houses on the real estate market, classify our output by telling whether the house "sell for more or less than the asking price".

**Example 2**
> Given a patient with a tumor, to predict whether the tumor is malignant or benign.

## Unsupervised Learning
Unsupervised learning allows us to approach problems with little or no idea what our results should look like. We can derive strcuture from data where we don't necessarily know the effect of the variables.

We can derive this structure by clustering the data based on relationships among the variables in the data.

::: tip
With unsupervised learning there is no feedback based on the prediction results.
:::

**Example**
> Clustering: take a collection of 1,000,000 different genes, and find a way to automatically group these genes into groups that are somehow similar or related by different variables, such as lifespan, location, roles and so on.

## Reinforcement learning
The learning system is called an `agent` in this context, the learning system can observe the environment, select and perform actions, and get `rewards` in return. It must then learn by itself what is the best strategy, called a `policy`, to get the most reward over time.

**Example**
> Alpha Go. 

## Semisupervised Learning
Most semisupervised learning algorithms are combinations of unsupervised and supervised algorithms. 

Since labeling data is usually time-consuming and costly, you will opten have plenty of unlabeled instances, and few labeled instances. Some algorithms can deal with data that's partially labeled. This is called semisupervised learning.

**Example**
> Some photo-hosting services, such as Google Photos, are good examples of this. Once you upload all you family photos to the server, it automatically recognizes that the same person A shows up in photos 1, 5, and 11, while another person B shows up in photos 2, 5, and 7. This is the unsupervised part of the algorithm (clustering). Now all the system needs is for you to tell it who these people are. Just add one label per person and it is able to name everyone in every photo, which is useful for searching photos.



## Frameworks
[scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/index.html) implements many Machine Learning algorithms efficiently, so it makes for a great entry point to learning Machine Learning

[TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/) is a more comlex library for distributed numerical computation. It makes it possible to train and run very large neural networks efficiently by distributing the computations across potentially hundreds of multi-GPU servers.

[Keras](https://keras.io/) is a high-level Deep Learning API that makes it very simple to train and run neural networks. It can run on top of either TensorFlow, Theano, or Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit. TensorFlow comes with its own implementation of this API, called `tf.keras`, which provides support for some advanced TensorFlow features (e.g. the ability to efficiently load data).

## Machine Learning advantages
* Machine Learning can turn a long list of rules into one Machine Learning algorithm, and can often simplify code and perform better than the traditional approach.

* Machine Learning is great for complex problems for which using a traditional approach yields(产出) no good solution.

* Fluctuating environments: a Machine Learning system can adapt to new data.

* Getting insights about complex problems and large amounts of data.

## Machine Learning workflow
A typical Machine Learning project follows the steps:
1. Load the data
2. Prepare the data
3. Create plot for visualization
4. train a model and make prediction

## Example of Machine Learning
``` python
# Python ≥3.5 is required
import sys
assert sys.version_info >= (3, 5)

# Scikit-Learn ≥0.20 is required
import sklearn
assert sklearn.__version__ >= "0.20"

# To plot pretty figures directly within Jupyter
# rc stands for runtime configuration
%matplotlib inline
import matplotlib as mpl
mpl.rc('axes', labelsize=14)
mpl.rc('xtick', labelsize=12)
mpl.rc('ytick', labelsize=12)

# Code example
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
import sklearn.linear_model

# Load the data using a pandas function
country_stats = pd.read_csv("lifesat.csv")


X = np.c_[country_stats["GDP per capita"]]
y = np.c_[country_stats["Life satisfaction"]]

# Plot the data
country_stats.plot(kind='scatter', x="GDP per capita", y='Life satisfaction')
#plt.show()

# Select a linear model
model = sklearn.linear_model.LinearRegression()

# Train the model
model.fit(X, y)

# Visualise the model as a red line
t0, t1 = model.intercept_[0], model.coef_[0][0]
modelX = np.linspace(10000, 55000, 1000)
plt.plot(modelX, t0 + t1*modelX, "r")
plt.show()

# Make a prediction for Cyprus
X_new = [[22587]]  # Cyprus' GDP per capita
print(model.predict(X_new)) # outputs [[ 5.96242338]]
```

The code with data set of this example can be found in ['My github'](https://github.com/Che-Zhu/code_prac/tree/master/uni/using_machine_learning_tools/workshop1)

