# ndarray properties

`ndarray` is the core of the NumPy package, it encapsulates n-dimensional arrays of homogeneous(same) data types.

There are few differences between `ndarray` and the standard Python sequences:
* NumPy arrays have a fixed size at creation, unlike Python lists (which can grow dynamically). Changing the size of an `ndarray` will create a new array and delete the original.
* The elements in a NumPy array are all required to be of the same data type, and thus will be the same size in memory.

## ndarray attributes
`ndarray.ndim`
* the **number of axes (dimensions)** of the array.

`ndarray.shape`
* the dimensions of the array. For a matrix with `n` rows and `m` colums, `shape` will be `(n, m)`. The length of the `shape` tuple is therefore the number of axes, `ndim`.

`ndarray.size`
* the total number of elements of the array. This is equal to the product of the element of `shape`.

`ndarray.dtype`
* an object describing the type of the elements in the array.

`ndarray.itemsize`
* the size in bytes of each element of the array. For example, an array of elements of type `float64` has `itemsize` 8 (64/8=8)

---

**Example**
``` python
import numpy as np

test = np.array([[1,2,3],
                [4,5,6],
                [7,8,9],
                [10,11,12]])

print('ndim:', test.ndim, 'shape:', test.shape, 'size:', 
test.size, 'dtype:', test.dtype, 'itemsize:', test.itemsize)

-------------------- Output --------------------

ndim: 2 shape: (4, 3) size: 12 dtype: int32 itemsize: 4
```

::: tip
Note that ndarrays like `[1,2,3]` has `shape` of (3, ) because there are **3** elements inside the out most bracket.
:::

---

We can also manipulate data type by specifying `dtype` parameter in `np.array()`

**Example**
``` python
a = np.array([[1,2,3],[4,5,6]], dtype="float32")
```